with Colonel Boatner, did you?
No, sir.
He said, yes, sir, no, sir.
That was it.
And I remember he, this sophomore said something, and he just leaned over his desk and started pounding like that and said, typical goddamn Aggie.
So that was one of his sayings, you know.
And he went on to Korea during the Korean War.
He was assistant division commander, and he,
Then they pulled him out because he was an old China hand.
He had been in China back in the 30s and spoke Chinese.
So they pulled him out and put him on Koji Do Island where he, the prisoners were rioting there and they had taken over the island.
He came in and he got them back, got them shaped back up.
And the story goes, now I've heard this, I don't know if it's true or not,
Somebody said, asked him about, you know, how bad was it or was that a tough assignment?
He said, well, listen, after handling the Corps of Cadets and the Aggie Moms Club, you know, this was easy.
So that's the story they tell.
I don't know if that's true.
But anyway, he died a few years ago.
But you and your buddies were not surprised that he could take charge of those.
No, no, no.
We laughed about it.
We said, boy, if they wanted to send somebody in, he was the right guy to send in.
Now, was Molloy an Aggie?
No, they were both West Pointers.
Molloy and Boatner were West Pointers.
In fact, Molloy's son started the A&M in about 47, I think, was only here one year, then he went to West Point.
He later became a general.
I saw him over the years as a general.
Was there anything you all did in the Corps then that was very different from now?
Actually, the Corps hadn't changed that much.
Okay, that's what I thought.
I was trying to think of their... One thing, we had rifles, and we used to drill with rifles and that sort of thing, but they don't have that now.
What vintage were those rifles?
Well, I know we had, at one time, we had M1, the Garand.
So that'd be World War II.
Well, they were World War II rifles.
And I'm not sure if we had Enfields and Springfields to begin with.
I can't remember.
I think we had the M1 rifle the whole time.
And the uniforms y'all wore in the Corps were pretty close to, similar to what they are now.
Well, no.
We started out with OD, the freshman and sophomore,
sophomores wore OD uniforms and the junior and seniors wore the green surge.
Oh, that's right.
Pinks and greens for seniors.
That's right.
And we wore the old World War II type blouse with blue lapels on it.
That was ROTC had blue lapels.
And then at the end of our freshman year, they decided they would do away with the blue lapels.
and put us into all green, you know, green jacket and green pants, similar to the uniform today.
Of course, everybody said, you know, Corps is going to hell.
I mean, this is the end.
Anytime you let freshmen wear sophomore uniforms, well now they're wearing senior uniforms.
What were senior uniforms when I was
when I was here.
But, you know, it wasn't a very good uniform.
We didn't get too many uniforms, and then we wore khakis.
But one thing we never had, we never had shoes.
They never issued shoes.
So we had a, the Corps would line up, and they'd have every variety of, it didn't have to be brown, but every variety of brown shoes that you could imagine.
When did that change, do you know?
I don't know.
When I came back in 77, they were issuing shoes.
I didn't know about that variety.
And they didn't, they didn't,
For a while, they didn't issue field jackets, and you had to buy your own field jackets.
So we had all kind of varieties of field jackets.
So most of them were short, like tanker's jackets.
Now, were the senior cavalry trousers dressed, were they the same then as they are now?
They were the same, except they had genuine leather on the inside.
And you know, we very seldom ever wore our boots.
That's what I thought.
We wore them at parades.
We wore them at football games.
But not to class.
On court trips.
Never wore them to class.
We just didn't wear them except when we had to.
Did you wear them to a formal dance?
Well, formal dances, yeah.
Formals, yeah.
But only on special occasions would you wear your boots.
Do you have any special memories about freshman, sophomore, final reviews?
Well, I know that
The final review for the end of my freshman year was a great year because we wore a fish stripe.
In fact, class of 50 was the last class to wear the fish strap, which is a white band just above your cuff, right at the top of your cuff.
And, of course, what we did, we took those off and then we put white tape around there.
So after we went around the first time, then we all ripped off the white tape and we no longer wore, you know, fish.
Got rid of our fish stripe.
And drill was, it was held, final review held on the drill field.
On the drill field, yes.
Do you remember whether any famous World War II general review?
Well, Eisenhower came down one time, I think, and was here.
And then we had, Audie Murphy was here one time for.
Do you remember what happened when those?
They, well, they made honor.
Audie Murphy, an honorary lieutenant colonel in the Corps, I remember that.
I don't remember about Eisenhower or the other, you know, I think we had the governor or somebody over here.
At that time, all that didn't impress me very much.
We had lived in, until I was 10, we lived in Garland, then a country farming town, and my uncle ran a little gas station on the east edge of town, and in 47, 48, before he became completely a famous celebrity, Audie Murphy drove a car in one day, and here was a great big old guy, all beat up,
And Audie had given this guy, a hitchhiker, a ride, and he tried to pull a gun on him and stick him up, and Audie beat the heck out of him.
The, let's see, and for basketball, G. Raleigh wasn't built yet?
No, DeWare.
DeWare.
And did y'all, did you guys make that a noisy place?
Well, yeah, yeah.
It was, of course, it's so small, you know.
We did.
And you would fill it?
Usually that was a pretty good crowd.
What did you and your buddies think about Aggie Yell leaders?
Were they, was that a highly desirable, oh, for the guys that got it, it was highly desirable, but I never did want to be a Yell leader.
You know, it was a prestigious job.
What was the most prestigious student leadership position?
Well I always thought it was company commander.
That's what I wanted to be and I did get to be that.
And of course a Ross volunteer.
That was one reason I studied so hard in my sophomore years to bring my grade point ratio up where I could get in the Ross volunteers.
Were you, in those days were you selected at the end of your sophomore year?
Beginning of your junior year.
About how many were selected each?
I think 72.
72 new juniors?
Yeah.
How did you know you even had a chance?
Did you apply?
As far as I know, you applied for it.
And how did you learn you had been selected?
Somebody notified you.
I don't know.
You don't remember whether you... I don't remember.
And how did you feel when you put that uniform on?
Well, I felt great.
You know, that was one of the things I wanted to do.
Because see, my uncle had been in an RV.
See, so I wanted to be in an RV.
Now, did you have to buy your own outfit?
Yeah, yeah.
Had to buy your own uniform.
And is there only one?
There's not a winter and a summer?
No.
All white.
And it has, that uniform has not changed?
It hadn't changed.
I tried, as a commandant, I tried to get them to change from black shoes to white shoes.
And I said, we'll buy them for you.
We'll issue them out of the MPC over there.
Now, RVs would go to hell if they did that.
Old Army.
Do you remember, as an RV, some special events that you got to attend as an RV?
Well, we did a, not really.
We didn't go to New Orleans.
This was before they went to New Orleans.
And I can't remember much, doing much of anything except on Mother's Day, which is now Parents Weekend.
On Mother's Day we farmed and then we did some honor guards for people.
I can't remember who we did them for.
And, of course, we had the RV ball and RV banquet and things like that.
Did you go over for governor's inauguration?
No.
Oh, boy.
Did the RVs march?
They didn't march as a separate unit on court trips, did they?
No, no, no.
Now, my senior year, I went inactive because I was working on the Aggieland, and that was almost a full-time job.
Any time I wasn't in class, I was overworking on that, and I just didn't have time
Did you end up being the editor of the Aggieland?
Yeah, I was the co-editor.
They had a civilian student editor and a military, you know, corps.
Poor guy.
Tell me as much about the Aggieland as you can.
Tell this machine.
About the Aggieland?
Yeah, and what all it involved, and who was the advisor, and what all did y'all do?
You know, one of the big things, getting people to take their, have their picture made.
And then we had the different sections and we had an editor, like the military section and sports, and Chuck Cabaniss was my co-editor, but he took over the sports.
We couldn't find anybody to do the sports, so he did the sports, which left me with everything else.
So I was the editor and he was the sports editor.
But we were co-editoring names.
And it involved trying to get people to work for you.
You know, we'd have them come up one afternoon and you'd have five different crews.
And they would come up and we'd, of course, we had to cut the pictures, paste them on the, all this was done manually.
Paste them on the board and then go through.
We had the section where you chose the, it wasn't really the sweetheart, but they call it
Vanity Fair, I think is what they called it, and had to do that section.
And these, all these different sections just had to be, had to be put together, then you had to do the write-ups on those.
Who selected the Vanity Fair winner that year?
I think I did.
Y'all didn't call on some Hollywood?
Well, no, that had been done in the past, and I just thought that was kind of hokey, so we just kind of got a little committee together and did it ourselves.
Did they all, the seniors send their mother, I mean their sweetheart's picture, or did some send their mother?
Well, in the favorites, some of them sent their mother.
Well, I really didn't want to do that, but, you know, I didn't want to destroy A&M by telling them they couldn't do it.
So most people sent in a girlfriend and then some, you know, sent in the larger pictures to try to get their girlfriend or in some cases their wife nominated for the
whatever it was.
You were, you all, as a working place, where, where were the offices for?
It was in the second floor of Goodwin Hall.
Of Goodwin.
Who was the advisor, the professional?
Well, it was the guy I was telling you about.
Bing, Bing, Roland Bing.
That's who it was, Roland Bing.
He was, he was the main.
And you reported, where'd, where'd you get your budget?
How was it funded?
Student activity fee money?
Well, you know, we raised a lot of money by selling advertisement.
I had an advertising manager who went out and sold advertising.
We got the money there, and I don't know really what kind of budget we had.
I can't remember.
And did pretty well everybody have their picture taken and everybody participated?
It was pretty good, yeah.
But you know now, I was a class agent for a while, and every once in a while I'd start looking someone up and their picture wouldn't be in the annual.
I thought, well this is really bad.
You know after all these years somebody starts looking for a guy's picture and he didn't take the trouble to go get it made.
What was your deadline?
By what time of the year did you turn everything?
Well we were turning it in all year long but I know that after I graduated I came back down here for a couple of weeks to finish up.
finish up the Aggieland.
And about when were they ready, when did, were they distributed?
It was in the spring, in the fall semester sometimes.
Okay.
And how did, how did you, if you had already graduated, how did you pick it?
I think they mailed them, they mailed them.
Really?
I think.
That would have been a big mail then.
Well a post-it didn't cost much.
He sent a letter for three cents.
Did you all have any kind of a theme or a format?
Not really.
Who was your, did you have somebody that you turned to for advice, some student that had been involved previous years?
Not when I was the editor.
I didn't want anybody around.
You didn't have, did you have somebody that you admired some yearbook in the past you were trying to copy?
Well, they weren't, they were all gone.
But I had a bunch of
you know, pretty good guys working for me.
We'd get together and talk things over.
Who were your closest associates?
Well, Bob Skidmore was one of my good friends, and Bob Gregg that I mentioned.
We used to go drinking beer together.
Those were two of them that worked with me.
And then, of course, Chuck Cavanaugh, but he was primarily the
And you had a sports guy.
And you had started as a sophomore?
Yeah, I started working as a sophomore.
Then as a junior, what was your task?
Same thing, just whatever needed to be done, I worked on it.
And then as a senior?
You had to run for this job.
It was elected by the student body.
And do you remember what the vote was?
I don't remember.
I know Floyd Hinks ran against me, and he wound up as the advertising manager.
So it ended friendly.
Oh yeah.
So did you have to come back for your senior year early in order to work on that?
No.
So describe a typical day then as a senior.
describe a typical day for you as a company commander, an RV, and editor of the... Well, of course, I had the company, you know, and we did all the, you know, going to formation and all that sort of thing, and we had activities, intramurals, or we had drills.
At that time, we had drill one afternoon a week, two hours an afternoon a week, had to be there, and so I did that, then
Every afternoon, unless I had drill, I didn't have any labs at that time.
Every afternoon I was there in Goodwin Hall overseeing the people working and doing a lot of the work myself.
What about at night?
We didn't work at night.
By that time I was inactive in the RV so I didn't have to go to the RV drill.
When you look back on that experience with the Aggieland of what are you most proud
Boy, I'm proud of that book.
What part of it or what?
The whole thing.
I thought it was a good annual.
Did any, I presume nobody tried to play some joke to misplace something or nobody got something in there that shouldn't have been in?
No, no, that's high school stuff.
Or maybe some of these other rinky-dink schools.
I don't think anybody would want to do that with the Aggieland.
And did you, was there any kind of ceremony where you presented a copy to the president or anything like that?
No, no, no.
People wanted to buy it just like I did.
Was there a theme?
Not really.
Have you ever looked at the one that Mike Halbuty edited in 1931?
No, I don't think I have.
All right, someday go to the archives.
Well, if it's 31, I'm sure I did, because that's when my uncle was.
I think it's 31.
And he was the editor, and there's all kinds of nouveau art in it.
Then did you ever meet Buck Shewitz?
Never did.
All right, Buck, class of 21.
which is Mr. Evans and Mr. Zachary.
Buck was from Queiro and he ends up being a professional artist.
He was the art editor that year and there's some splendid art in there.
I have a copy of that one I'm proud to say.
When did you decide that you were going to be serious about the military as a career?
I went to summer camp
In 19, end of my junior year.
End of your junior year?
Yeah, end of my junior year.
I went to summer camp and I just, I really liked it.
Well I'd always liked the military.
I thought over the years I might want to be a soldier.
And of course during World War II I wanted to be a Marine, but then I wised up a little bit.
But summer camp, you know, out firing all the weapons and doing all that stuff, and I really kind of liked it.
I thought maybe that's what I want to do.
Where'd you do camp, summer camp?
Camp Hood.
One thing I missed, at the end of my sophomore year I had a very unique experience.
The United Fruit Company had an internship in Central America.
And so I signed up for that and I went down to Central America in Panama on the Atlantic side near a little place called Puerto Moyes.
And I was an assistant farm overseer for the summer on a banana farm.
And it was, the banana farm was way out in the boonies.
In fact, there were no roads out there.
The only way to get there was a little narrow gauge railroad.
And if you wanted to go somewhere, you had to call out a car and they'd send a little sidecar out and pick you up.
And so I spent the summer riding around on the mule
overseeing the banana farm, banana plantations.
What did you learn from that summer?
Well, I don't know.
I learned a whole lot.
I had a lot of fun, you know.
I learned how to grow bananas.
I knew that.
Well, you must have learned how to work with some.
Well, we had mostly, well, we had Indians that did the spraying and the grass cutting, and then we had Panamanians that did some of the work.
And I'm assuming your Spanish was limited.
Very limited, yeah.
Yeah, so.
But you must have learned something about how to work with people.
Well, yeah, I think I learned that in the Corps a long time ago, you know.
Oh, that, because that would, that'd be very.
It was a unique experience.
You know, got to go down on a, went to New Orleans and then went from there on a, well, they had these banana boats that had 99 passengers and carried bananas and, you know, the Great White Fleet, they called it, United Fruit Company, you know, went down.
Then caught another ship through the Panama Canal, on and on up the coast to Puerto Moyes.
You know, it was really interesting.
And while I was there, I took one weekend off and went up into the high mountains there, to a small, and it was really primitive, you know, 1947, I guess this was.
So it was, it was a unique experience.
Now that's after your?
That's after my sophomore year.
Sophomore.
Then my junior year, after my junior year is when I went to ROTC summer camp, and that's where I met my wife while I was there.
She was from Belton.
a fellow in my outfit named Randy Holland, James Randolph Holland, and so I went into Belton, which is about
20 miles away to him one Saturday afternoon.
We went down to the swimming pool and we met all these Belton girls down there that he knew all of them, you know.
He'd gone to high school with them.
And so wound up meeting my wife and she reluctantly agreed to go on a date that night because she said she just didn't, she didn't go on blind dates.
And we said, you know, I'm not blind, you know.
I overwhelmed her I guess.
Now what year in school was she?
That was the end of her freshman year at Baylor.
It was the end of my junior year at A&M.
So anyway we met there and then dated and then
My senior year, I was running back and forth to Waco.
And you still had that, do you have that same car?
I didn't have a car.
Oh, oh, you didn't have a car yet.
No, no.
Oh, that, oh, no.
No, a friend of mine had an old Model A. We'd go to Waco on Wednesday night.
Your grandmother promised you one if you'd go home.
She promised me.
If I'd gone to A&M, I mean, Abilene Christian College, I'd have been probably a preacher driving around in a car.
But so how did you get back and forth to Waco?
This buddy of mine had a girlfriend up there and he had a Model A. Oh and you rode with him?
And I rode with him back and forth to Waco.
And when, do you remember when you brought her to the campus for the first time?
Oh it was some time that year.
It was one of the, I don't think it was the football game, it was probably in the, well
probably in the spring at one of the dances.
I know she's never forgiven me for not inviting her down to the cotton ball.
But I never did go to the cotton ball.
I didn't want to go to the cotton ball.
But she's never let me forget that.
But she did come down like it was probably the infantry ball or something like that.
Did she come to commencement?
I don't think so.
And you know one time she came down and she stayed at Benny Zen's house.
You probably remember, see, Benny's, young Benny Zen was a freshman with me and a good friend of mine.
And in fact they were from Temple.
And so she stayed at Benny Zen's house.
That might have been the only time she was down here because I can't remember her staying anywhere else because
I mean, her mother wasn't going to let her go anywhere.
I mean, she wasn't about to let her come down here and stay in a motel or a hotel or anything like that, but since she was staying, and they knew the Zins, so.
And I presume she caught a ride down here, or did she come on the bus or train?
I don't know.
I don't know how she came.
That's a good question.
The, and so by that beginning of that senior year, you're serious about the military as a career?
Yeah.
And describe what it was like to be a company commander.
Tell me as much as you can about being a company commander.
Well, it was, you know, you're the head guy and it was, it was a great, great experience and you just had to keep all the sophomores and didn't have any freshmen, you see, sophomores and juniors in line and then try to get along with your
with your contemporaries because a lot of it is things are done by consensus, you know.
Well I never was really much of a consensus guy because I've always, if I'm the leader, I'll make the decision and I'll get input from people and I'll get advice from people and I'll ask them for advice even though I probably know what I'm going to do anyway, but you know, some people feel pretty good if you ask, you ask them for advice if you kind of know what they're going to tell you, see.
So that's kind of the way I ran the company.
And I had some of the seniors that, you know, just weren't interested in doing anything and couldn't get them to participate in anything.
And I had others that were, you know, really gung-ho good guys and everything.
Now, to be selected as a company commander in those days, were you interviewed?
Was there a review committee that involved interviews?
I'm not sure how you got selected.
I know, see, I was the
I was the guide-owned bearer when I was in C Company sophomore year.
And I think that was a range because they had so many people that came out of companies that had been deactivated, put in these companies that were still in force and it just didn't appear fair for those people to get all the good jobs.
You know, like company commander, first sergeant, guide-owned bearer, things like that.
So I think there was probably some kind of arrangement
that I came from D Company, therefore I would be the guide-on-bearer because I had been selected guide-on-bearer at the end of my freshman year.
And that was the prestigious job in the company.
And so then when they reactivated the company, well, I wound up as the first sergeant.
And if you're the first sergeant and you do your job, then
chances are you will become the company commander.
So I guess really the key is to getting selected as the guy don't bear a sophomore.
But anyway, I carried that through and wound up the company commander.
And it wasn't, you know, it wasn't
all that demanding because, you know, people were going to class and everything.
You just had to make sure that, you had to keep on them by keeping the rooms cleaned up because you'd get demerits and so forth if you didn't and you wanted to look good, you know.
And then, of course, you were always graded at march-ins and drills and things like that and you tried to motivate them to do their best and it was mostly motivational was what it was.
And how often were all company commanders called together for any purpose?
Probably every other week maybe we'd have meetings.
It's hard to get.
Did Boatner lecture to you guys?
You know I don't remember ever being in just a commander's meeting with Boatner other than I remember one over and over in
the old assembly hall.
The old assembly hall was over there across the street from where the quack shack is now.
I guess it's right in there where that chapel is.
I remember Boatner talking to us over there one time.
But usually, as far as I know, the company commander's meeting were called by the corps staff.
or by the, by the TAC officers.
And we had TAC officers at that time.
We had military officers who gave us, you know, conducted the military science classes.
Then we had TAC officers that, that stayed over in the Durham area.
And they were reserve officers that were not on active duty.
They were university employees.
Is there, was there anyone to whom you would have turned for advice?
I've got this kind of situation.
What do I do?
Well, probably my military science instructors because I thought a lot of them.
They were really super, super people.
Who were some of them?
Well, there was Colonel Lewis was the chief infantry instructor.
And at that time we had branch ROTC.
See, I took infantry ROTC.
And there was another, there was a captain, I can't, it starts with a K, I can't remember his name, but he was really, really good.
And there were just some super, super officers over there that you could talk to.
And a few of the TAC officers, you know, we didn't think much of the TAC officers normally.
And you put on that new rank insignia at final review your junior year.
Is that right?
Yeah.
How did you feel when you put on it?
Oh great.
Back to, see I'd been a captain in high school and now I'm back to captain again.
Of course at that time the captains were the, were the company commanders.
Where did you get your senior boots?
I bought my senior boots, I think I paid $40 or $45, something like that for them from a fellow named Curry who was from Sreveport, Louisiana.
And at that time people didn't keep their boots, they just, you just passed them on to the next guy.
It might have been $50, I'm not sure.
But I turned around and sold them to somebody for about the same price.
I paid for them because, you know, I didn't need those boots or want those boots.
Did any family, special family come at Final Review your junior year?
I don't think so my junior year.
I know my, I think my grandmother and my aunt and my mother came my, when I graduated in Final Review that year.
But you know, it was a long, see roads were pretty bad.
It was, this was a long haul down here from Fort Worth.
And people didn't have much money.
One of my normal questions is where were you when you heard the news that something had occurred, but during your years there was no Pearl Harbor or Vietnam.
It started the summer after you got out, so there weren't, and there was no presidential assassination.
Oh, you mean while I was in, while I was in university?
I can't think of anything.
I can't think of anything during that period.
The, were you aware when you were an undergraduate that there were any secret fraternities?
I didn't hear about the TTs until I was out of school for a year and then that's when they, it came out down here.
Did you ever hear of the stickers?
Never heard of the stickers.
You haven't yet?
Well I heard of the TTs and I know one guy that, in fact, Howard Perry told me this guy was involved.
And I asked him about it one time, and he was very evasive about it.
He didn't want to even talk about it.
But while you were a student, you were mad.
I had never heard of a secret organization.
And it kind of made me mad when I found out they had one, and they didn't tell me.
It was just like the CIA was really recruiting heavily in 1949 and 1950.
on college campuses.
And in fact, Jarvis Miller told me who the CIA recruiter was.
It was, in fact, he was in our dorm.
And I know
I'm almost possibly that three of the people in my outfit went in the CIA.
One of them I know was in the CIA.
I mean he was seen in Chiang Mai, Thailand back in the 60s, running an import-export business.
And he was seen in other places.
In fact he died here about a year ago.
Another guy was the second secretary in Afghanistan or something like that.
And he, his address is always unknown in the directory.
And the other guy, I read in
I was reading a book and they mentioned his name as being in Laos with the CIA.
So there were three guys out of my outfit and I always, they always made me mad that they, no one ever approached me.
But then I realized that the guys that went into the CIA were the real quiet ones that were always in the background.
And they didn't want a loud mouthed guy like me, you know, who was out there in front all the time.
They didn't want me in the CIA.
During that time, what were the student